notes on potsdam klima institut research in complexity science

https://www.pik-potsdam.de/research/complexity-science/research

also 

https://www.pik-potsdam.de/research/futurelabs/artificial-intelligence-in-the-anthropocene

1. Complexity Science:

Applies and develops methods to understand all aspects of the gloval climate and
sustainability problem, from analysis of extreme weather events to network analysis
of societal phenomena.

Dynamics, stability and resilience of complex hybrid infrstructure networks:
w/ particular focus on higly renewable power grids.

!!!	BA/MA Thesis offered
	https://www.pik-potsdam.de/research/complexity-science/research/dynamics-stability-and-resilience-of-complex-hybrid-infrastructure-networks/topics-for-bachelors-or-masters-theses


Numerical analysis of global economic impacts:
GL: Sven Willner

	Implementation of investment strategy. investment strategy investigates different levels
	of foresight and oversight of different economic acctors. also compute impact of extreme weather
	events via global trade on EU economy.

Development of advanced time series analysis techniques:
	f.e. comparison f correlation analysis technques for irregularly sampled time series
	a time series with uncertainties can be considered as a time series of probability density
		functions.
	recurrence plots
	
Data-based analysis of climate decisions:
GL: Dr. Leonie Wenz

!!!	study how different economic, private and public actors responded to past weather
	extremes and explore a range of sustainalbe adaption strategies for the future.
	previously: impact of extreme weather events.
	

Network- and machine-learning based predictions of extreme events:

	The Working Group "Network- and machine-learning-based prediction of extreme events" focuses
	on the application and development of modern techniques from machine learning to challenging 
	problems of system Earth. 
	network analysis of climate but also of networks in general f.e. power grids
	sounds super sophisticated

GaNe - FutureLab on Game Theory & Networks of Interacting Agents:
	Agent-based modeling of social learning in key economic situations

!!!	possible to write master thesis there


Computational Methods and Visualization:

	Methods for optimal decision making under uncertainty
	domain specific languages for tipping point research
	visual analytics methods 
	visual data communication approaches

