expose draft

Main Idea:
Improve Climate Model future projections by 
using obersvational data and Machine Learning.
With future climate change, droughts in the Amazon 
forest may become more frequent and/or severe. 
Droughts can turn Amazon regions from rain forest 
into savanna, leading to high amounts of carbon 
released into the atmosphere.
Past research has shown that there is a relatioship between
Sea Surface Temperatures (SSTs) in the Tropical 
Atlantic/Pacific and precipation in the Amazon.
Step one in my thesis will be trying to quantify this relationship
using different approaches and compare them to each other.
So I am trying to find a predictive (interpretable) model
that can predict precipation from SSTs and possibly other variables.
If such a mechanism is found it can be used as a so called 
"emergent constraint" in a second step.
Since different climate models give different answers about future 
climate change, there is a need to narrow this "spread".
Here we try to constrain it by using information from observations. 
(Much simplified) We rescale a models future projection (i.e rain) 
by how well it fits the current observable data.
Then we can use a ML approach to learn and predict:
f(model data) = rescaled model projection 
f(observed data) = projection
validation via leave-one-climate-model-out CV
This can be learned f.e by Gradient Boosting Regression Trees



Improve Climate Model future projections by 
using obersvational data and Machine Learning.
Find a relationship between Sea Surface Temperatures and
Amazon rainfall. Study how well this relationship 
is represented in climate models.
Assign weights to climate models who are closer to observations
and rescale their future projections of rainfall (or increased
carbon in the atmosphere due to droughts in the Amazon).
Use observable climate information to rescale climate model
future projections (f.e rainfall)
Learn and predict via ML approach:
f(model data) = rescaled future model projection
f(observed data) = improved future projection


Main Idea:
Improve Climate Model future projections by 
using obersvational data and Machine Learning.
Motivation: Climate Models are used to study
possible consequences of the future climate.
(f.e in the IPCC reports)
But different climate models give different
answers about future climate.
The range of answers is referred to as "spread"
and can be very large.
Step 1:
One approach to narrow the spread are "emergent constraints".
Here we include the information from observations, to constrain
the spread of future projections.
We use the observations of a current/historic climate variable X
to check how well each model fits the observed values.
Assuming a relationship between X and a future climate variable Y,
we can now assign weights to the models Y acccording to how well 
they represent the current X.
Meaning we use observable real-world climate from the past to constrain
the future climate variables in models.
We can use these weights also to rescale the models' outcome.
which gives us Y' (rescaled model outcome)

Step 2:
Use a machine learning approach (f.e Gradient Boosting Regression Trees)
to learn a function 
f(X) = Y' in words f(model variable) = rescaled model outcome
f(obs X) = improved Y


Main Idea:
Improve Climate Model future projections by 
using obersvational data and Machine Learning.
With future climate change, droughts in the Amazon forest may become more
frequent and/or severe. Droughts can turn Amazon regions from
rain forest into savanna, leading to high amounts of carbon
released into the atmosphere.
Past research has shown that there is a relatioship between
Sea Surface Temperatures (SSTs) in the Tropical Atlantic/Pacific and
precipation in the Amazon.
Step one in my thesis will be to quantify this relationship
using different approaches and compare them to each other.
So I am trying to find a predictive (interpretable) model
that can predict precipation from SSTs and possibly other variables.
If such a mechanism is found it can be used as a so called "emergent
constraint".
Since different climate models give different answers about future climate change,
there is a need to narrow this "spread".
Here we try to constrain it by using information from observations.
(Much simplified) We rescale a models future projection (i.e rain) by how well it fits
the current observable data.
Then we can use a ML approach to
learn: f(model data) = rescaled model projection and
predict: f(observed data) = projection
validate with CV etc.
This can be learned f.e by Gradient Boosting Regression Trees


Since the mechanism in general is already studied and has a
theoretical underpinning, it then could be used as a so called
"emergent constraint". 
Different climate models give different answers about future climate
(referred to as the "spread" of answers).
To narrow this spread, we can incorporate the information of current
observable climate variables X (observed)
According to how well a model represent the current climate variables X,(difference of models X and observed X)
we assign weights to the future outcome Y of a model.
These weights can also be used to rescale a model's outcome.
We then may try to find a function f so that:
f(X) = Y' (rescaled model outcome)











