- lieber normale temperature daten
- sst anstatt sta
- mittelwerte saisonalität nicht kaputt
- wie die werte aussehen sieht ok aus für mich

- aus Temperaturen nur den Trend rausnehmen nicht, saisonalität etc
- rechte Seite der Regressionsgleichung
- Precipitation reminder
- Temperaturen nur Saisonalität rausnehmen

- Box Äquator 5 Grad nach unten geht
- Region definiert die Box
- Lineares Modell, für mittleren Regen
- 

- wieviel timelag ist sinnvoll
- 0, 3, 6, 12 lags
- korrelation zwischen regenmittel und sst
- mittlerer Regen 

- reminder + trend bei beiden. nehmen
- 0, 3, 6, 12 lags 

- cross validation time series
- 
- Prognosegüte vs Lassomodel fitten
- Lassomodel glmnet subsampling lasso fitten 


- fourier transformation, autokorrelation, varianz erhalten

- Anmelden, 
- Deadline,
- aber für mich macht es auch keinen Unterschied.

TODO:
1. sst statt ssta Daten preprocessen oder nur bei deasonalise and detrend ändern? DONE
A: Nur bei decompose ssta zu sst
2. change stl function insted of taking only reminder, take sum of trend + reminder DONE
3. plot korrelations for different timelags DONE
	3.1 compute correlations, is easy compute precip means first though
		Q: Where to insert the values?
		Q: Maybe keep raster structure before using decompose and just skip when is.na
		A: Lets try it out
	STEP: rewrite functions
		STEP: adjust exact addition keep even really small values, DONE was exact only printing
			was rounded
	STEP: inspect raster object classes
	3.2 refill marix with NA rows to create raster and plot it WONT FIX

	3.3 turn matrix into raster DONE
	3.4 plot raster object DONE
	3.5 create first plot DONE
	3.6 write function that compute cor for different time lags DONE
	3.7 write function that plots respective correlations DONE
	3.8 spend max 2hurs to create nice plots OPEN
	3.9 IDEA: compute quantils and plot only "significant" correlations DONE
I am here rn
STEP: interpret the correlation values and the plots a bit
	intepret changing pos and neg correlations and which fields are most interesting
	different distribution and therefore changed colour scale in the plot for timelag 3
	fix ggplot title when quantils are applied
	add lines for quantils of the distribution for the correlations, density plots
	summarise and create a document, send it to fabi and niklas and ask what they think
	distributions of 0 and 12 pretty similar, 3 seems to change the spikes, 6 has reversed
		compared to 0 or 12.
	create stl plots for the deseasonalised time series PRIO LOW
	compare deseaonalised and original time series PRIO LOW
	Play around with different settings for the density plot so we can save it and when we load
		and arrange with the other plots together it appears mas o menos the same width
HERE	Finish rmarkdown html output, all plots are saved in the same directory as the markdown file
		put the plots into a folder for this markdown
		delete the helper function code etc
		show all plots for each time lag
		show the density plots aligned
		show the corr and corrq plots aligned
			maybe make them a big bigger and add the titles again?
		talk about symmetries and how they may influence our model?
			if correlation is so symmetric over how many years does that hold?
		can we maybe achieve even two year predictions?
	Write email
		say something about document
		what else can we figure out from that? Ask Niklas
		talk about linear models, take maybe only highest correlations?
			how to account for multicollinearity here
			how to choose then which parameters come in
		talk about start of cross validation functions

Maybe. Fit lineare model with only 432 features, maybe take the 432 highest correlations or create
	confidence interval for the correlations
4. fit lasso models with own written cross validation
5. Update text from line 86
6. Update plots for sst from deasonalise and detrend
7. check where did I change the ssta to sst, should be done in both deseasonalise, also clean that up

Quesions:
Is correlation of two random variables again a random variable?


Notes on 12.08, 10:00

Be better prepared
be more pro active in guiding the meeting
think about the things you want to talk about
write down questions beforehand
anticipate no open questions that seem to indicate that u didnt think about the 
	problem enough yourself
in the beginning of the talk, say that if someone has something to say they can say it directly
	when I talk bullshit or anything like statistically



