expose for master arbeit

emergent constraints erklären
zusammenhang amazonas wassertemperaturen
paper nennen complex networks
paper gbrt emergent constraints und ml methoden (vlt auch DL)
emergent constraint quantifizieren
dann mit ml methoden vorhersagen verbessern

Improved Percipitation Forecast in the Amazon Basin
Improve Percipitation Projections in the Amazonas Basin with Machine Learning

I spent a whole lot of fortune on some shit i didnt/shouldnt need
believe me back then my ego was even greedier with greed
and my heart was more concerned about really why should i beat
Troubles used to come in daily on some official sheet
But whats the use of heavy use it only lowers self-esteem
And brings back to places where you already have been
breaking out this hopeless route has cost so many years
I just hope it may help out some distant peers
Cause I remember I once lost it and so I understand
Progress and Change is possible you can believe in it again

Importance of climate models
Climate Models differ in their answers about future climate giving rise
to a spread of estimates.
One way to narrow models estimates is the use of so-called
"Emergent Constraints".
The idea is to constrain a climate model's future estimates by using observations.
When analysing ensembles of climate models, a clear relationship between an observable
variable X in the past/current climate and Y of the future climate may "emerge".
If this relationship fulfils certain criteria, f.e. an underpinning physical explanation,
we can then plug in observations of X to constrain the range of estimates for Y.
- Cite complex networks paper -
..., among others studied the relationship between Atlantic Sea Surface Temperatures (SSTs)
and Rainfall in the Amazon Basin. Because of the large amount of Carbon stored in the
Amazon, estimates of future rainfall are essential since droughts can lead to diebacks in 
the rainforest.
... showed that the average cross correlation between the north translatlantic and the south
translatlantic ocean (NTAO and STAO respectively), can serve as an early warning system for
amazon droughts.
The connection of SST and rainfall in the Amazonas could potentially state an Emergent Constraint.
Thus a first goal for the Master's Thesis is to quantify the predictive power of the SST - Rainfall 
mechanism.
- Cite ML paper
Building on the concept of Emergent Constraint, ... Paper showed how to further constraint
futer projections of models using Gradient Boosting Regression Trees.
In a first step they constrain a climate variables future projection Y to Y_constr. Following they
use GBRT to learn a function f(X) = Y_constr. Here X are several variables.
Note that X so far is simulated data.
In a last step they used the learned function f() to estimate future projections of Y based on
observed X_obs. So f(X_obs) = Y_hat.
The second (optional) step of the thesis is to improve rainfall predictions/ projections by
a firstly constraining rainfall projections by the mechanism detected in (1) and 
use the machine learning approach from ML PAPER.

Main Idea:
Improve Climate Model future projections by 
using obersvational data and Machine Learning.
With future climate change, droughts in the Amazon 
forest may become more frequent and/or severe. 
Droughts can turn Amazon regions from rain forest 
into savanna, leading to high amounts of carbon 
released into the atmosphere.
Past research has shown that there is a relatioship between
Sea Surface Temperatures (SSTs) in the Tropical 
Atlantic/Pacific and precipation in the Amazon.
Step one in my thesis will be trying to quantify this relationship
using different approaches and compare them to each other.
So I am trying to find a predictive (interpretable) model
that can predict precipation from SSTs and possibly other variables.
If such a mechanism is found it can be used as a so called 
"emergent constraint" in a second step.
Since different climate models give different answers about future climate change, there is a need to narrow this "spread".
Here we try to constrain it by using information from observations. 
(Much simplified) We rescale a models future projection (i.e rain) by how well it fits the current observable data.
Then we can use a ML approach to learn and predict:
f(model data) = rescaled model projection 
f(observed data) = projection
Validation via leave-one-climate-model-out CV
This can be learned f.e by Gradient Boosting Regression Trees.


