notes on progressing emergent constraints on climate change

emergent: aufstrebend, enstehend
suite: Folge
albedo: Rückstrahlvermögen
to amplify: verstärken
retreat: Rückzug
flux: Fluss
store: Speicher
profund: fundiert
precursor: Vorläufer

?Fluctuation Dissipation-Theorem
?These considerations underscore the possibility that ESM simulated climate 
	variations on a variety of time scales captured
	within the observational record might be mechanistically-linked to
	the responses of those ESMs to future increasing greenhouse gases.
?sensitivity and variability
?is the early warning system confirmed

further reading:
[45] probability density function for predicted Y is derived given observational uncertainty in 
	X and the correlation between X and Y.
data mining in earth system models

Abstract:

emergent constraints (EC) is an evaluation technique for earth system models (ESM)
	rely on strong statistical relationshiops between aspects 
	of current climate and future change across an ESM ensemble.
combine EC relationship with observations could reduce uncertainty surrounding future change.
this paper: assess EC, how EC can move from strong statistical relationship to confirmation.
	primary indicators are verified mechanism and out-of-sample testing.
confirmed EC have potential to improve ESMs 


Introduction:

evaluate ESMs - compare simulation against observation
ESMs became more complex but evaluation has not changed
	if ESM can simulate suite (Folge) of observed variables, believed to characterize curent climate
	system's basic features reasonably well, it is considered appropriate for producing
	simulations of future climate.
critique: comparison to  beauty contest evaluation
	ESMs may simulate basic features reasonably well, but there is no information
	about how well the ESM can simulate future climate
	beauty contest, "less attractive ESM" may contain more accurate and useful
	estimates of some key attribute of future change
Even when ESM agree on basic aspects of climate change, spread across ESM ensebles remains
	uncomfortably large, see IPCC
--> how to reduce uncertainties? --> Emergent constraint (EC) approach
Emergent constraint: combination of an ensemble of climate simulations with contemporary
	measurements. despore major differences across ESM, relationships between X and Y
	are implicit within ESM solutions of partial differential equations governing  physical
	and biogeochemical systems and associated parameterizations.
Spread between contemp X and future Y may be large but relationship f is sometimes clear.
	-> Y = f(X) + epsilon
If X can be measured, then relationship f places useful constraint on Y, given the uncertainty in X
	is small compated to range of simulated values.
"emergent": (aufstrebend, entstehend), function f cannot be found from single ESM, it becomes apparent
	through analysis of large and structurally diverse ESM ensemble.
traditional model evaluation and parameter tuning of parameters in ESM. Important for model's
	climate change signals -> proto-EC, f.e sensitivity of water vapour response to temperature
	or influence of bias in sea ice extent and thicknes on climate sensitivity
traditional evaluation and EC are complementary, traditional must be kept on doing
EC technique is limited by knowledge space represented by ESM ensemble


Emergent constraints found so far:

snow-albedo feedback (albedo: Rückstrahlvermögen) X, is measurable in real climate, with smaller 
	observaitioanl uncertainty than in the ESM. -> possible to declare certain ESMs biased.
uncertain elements of climate-carbon cycle feedbacks. Y is projected carbon loss from tropical
	land under climate change. it can be related to an observable quantity in current climate
	 - present-day senstivity of annual atmospheric CO2growthreate to temperature variation.


Why ECs might exist:

why should ECs be expected in ESM ensemles? startinh H_0, they emerge by change and are not indicative
	of deeper meachanic relationships
high dimensionality -> high correlations occur by chance
two other reasons why strong relationships might emerge:
	1. Fluctuation-Dissipation-Theorem: connection between sensibility and variability
		in near-lineare systems. ESMs are highly complex -> might not be applicable
		BUT emergent relationships between variability and senstivity expected to be common 
		where senstitivity of net flux and sensititvity of linear store of same quantity are
		connected by a conservation principle
	2. Similarities between how ESM react to short-time-scale natural forcings and more sustained
		anthropogenic forcing.
?see above

Confirmation indicators:

proposed EC: emergent relationship w/ strong statistical underpinnings, BUT not accompanied by strong
	physical/ theoretical explanation or intuition. example: strong correation between 
	Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) bias and climate sensitivity. both shaped by 
	multiple processes, not connected in any obvious way
confirmed EC: strong statistical underpinning + emergent relationship arises from mechanism that work
	in the ESM ensemble. In practice not dichotomous but degrees of confirmation
Emergent relationshop becomes useful -> can be combined w/ observations to constrain future climate

Plausible mechanism: most basic, emergent relationship has some plausible and intuitive proposed
	mechanism associated with it. needs expert judgment. example: sensitivity of extratropical
	cloud reflectivity to temperature in the current climate (X) and climate change (Y) im climate
	models. mechanism was not proven to be at wotk in the ESm when EC was first porposed, but it
	was plausible because of observed behaviour of clouds.

Verficiation of mechanism: builds on first mechanism. involves scientific understanding of the proposed
	mechanism underpinning the emergent relationship. can take the form of:
	- more detailed analysis of ESM output, demonstrating mechanistic links, intermodel variation
	in X leads to intermodel variation in Y. 
	- theoretical arguments that support existence of emergence relationship
	verification most straight forward for ECs involving same feedbck process for both X and Y.
	becomes less straight forward as number of processes shaping X- and Y-variables increases

Out-of-sample testing: operates in parallel to the first two. involves neither naming nor understanding
	of a mechanism, indirect empirical evidence that mechanism is at work. Emergent relationship
	can be seen in ESM ensemble that is independent of one in which relationship was first
	diagnosed. Testing emergent relationship with new ensemble is euqivalent to enlargin original
	ensemble and checking whether high correlation of emergent relationship remains.
	If so, probability the relationship emerged by chance has declined.
	BUT ESMs are developed on previous versions and and even ESMs inside one ensemble might
	not be independent, but out of sample testing still useful.
	Also possible: out-of-sample testing w/ perturbed parameter or physics of single models.
	-> additional testing but less structural diversity

Using ECs for uncertainty reduction now:

If emergent relationship becomes confirmed EC, it can be confidently conmbined with obersvations
	to procude constraint on Y. Few ECs ma show all confirmation indicators.
	Dilemma, when is one allowed to use ECs?
	use them as long they are associated with likelihood statements.
If use ECs to make predictions, characterise uncertainty in obs values of X carefuly.
	translation of X-values to Y-values not trivial.
Both must be treated probabilistically, recent work [45]

New directions:
Targeted model development: uncertainty reduction in Y with ECs. ESM improvement, bias reduction in
	X. Need for analyss of how structural and parametric variations in ESM ensemble lead to 
	spread in X.
	perform analysis to understand why ESMs produce spread in X. -> uncertainty around many
	linked attributes will be reduced.
?	If model development removes the spread in X and then Y, emergent relationships resulting 
	from variation of each is no longer available	

New and important climate variables:
	apply EC to much broade suite of variables.
	simulated precipitation may be systematically related across ensembles to how ESMs
		simulate future changes in precipitation including extremes.
	also spatial variability more exploreable

Combining predictions from multiple constraints:
	many constraints for climate sensitiivty exhibit  statistical relationships with each other
	predictions that do not consider deendencies may be over-condfident.
	ECs for same Y can also make contradictory predictions.
	
Detecting tippin points:
	underlying assumption of tipping point precursors is that changes in system variability
	indicate changes in sensitivity.
	check for "critical" slowing down, as tipping point is approached -> increased auto correlation
	
Conclusions:
	ECs are attractive, ESM with observations are used to reduce uncertainty
	large number of proposed ECs but confusion about capabilities.
	Hierarchy of credibility:
		hypothesis testing; physical reasoning or mathematical models
			used to explain relationship between observable aspect of current climate
			and uncertain aspect of future climate
		test hypothesis thouh analysisi of outputs of complex ESMs, most stay "proposed"
		use out-of-sample-testing
	Also possible data mining ESMs
	keep best practices on doing
	
