Reducing uncertainties in climate projections with Emergent Constraints. Part 1: Concept
https://climate-dynamics.org/reducing-uncertainties-in-climate-projections-with-emergent-constraints-part-1-concept/

Increasing C02 in atmosphere warms the Earth.
Climate mdoels try to project how global warming will continue
	but they differ by response to increasing concentration of GHG
Emergent Constraints attempt to use info about current climate to constrain
	evolution of climate in the future

Climate Sensitivity and feedbacks:
ECS: Equiibrium climate sensitivity (ECS), equilibrium global-mean surface temp
	resulting from doubling of CO2 concentrations.
To predict how much Earth will warm, we need
	1. how CO2 concentration will evolve
	2. correct value of climate sensitivity
Why do models disagree? -> Disagreement on cloud response to surface warming.
Climate models cannot simulate clouds bc dynamic scales (10-100 m) are much smaller
	than typical length scales of climate model grid boxes (25-100 km)
	-> represent clouds via parametrizations that link small-scale dynamics to
		properties like temperture humidity etc.
	-> difficult to do and leads to uncertainties

What is an emergent constraint?
Reduce uncertainties -> priotize improvement of important and uncertain phys processes
	-> identify emp relationship between inter-model spread of observable Variable A
		and inter-model responses B to given perturbation
A predictor, B response. A is used to constrain -> emergent constraint
A may represent characteristic of climate system (humidity, winds) or natural variations
	(seasonal cycle, or year to year)
Goal: Find predictor s.t predictor | relation to climate response (f.e ECS in models)
	-> emerges as constraint on future climate projections.
Estimate A observationally -> use emergent constraint to narrow spread of climate change projections
Graphic, x-axis variable A and y-axis projection of future climate changes (f.e ECS)
	points represent climate models
	Grey Bar represents observations -> models in grey range more realistic
	Create weighted average -> use models deviation from observations to create weights

Critical evaluatin of emergent constraints:
ECs mst meet certain criteria
1st important understanding of physical relationship
	sensitivity test, modify A
	-> if models behvior after modification deviates from expected ECs (red instead of green arrow)
		-> relationship found by chance
Climate models are not independent of each other.
	-> keeping only models with enough difference reduces reliability
	-> ?
2nd criterion correct use of observations
	if uncertainties in oberservations are too large -> all models are consistent with the data
		-> no constraint
	observations should be available on long time-scale
	predictor should be defined by not too low-frequency variability (trends, decadal variability)
	obs should be consistent among datasets
3rd relevance of constrained climate-change projections
	depend on statistical conditions that characterize emergent constraints
	usually only correlation coefficients are used to quantify significance
	one might ask how number of climate modles and/or level of structural difference matter







