notes on Statistical Inference with Emergent Constraints
https://climate-dynamics.org/statistical-inference-with-emergent-constraints/

Eqillibrium climate sensitivity:
Climate sensitivity, measure of how much the Earth's climate will change
	after a change in the climate system.
	Example: how much will the Earth warm if carbon dioxide concentration doubles?
Thermal fluctuation: Random deviations of a system from its average state, that occur in
	a system at equilibrium. (f. e. atoms swinging on surface of crystal)
Fluctuation-Dissipation theorem: when there is a process that dissipates (abführen)
	energy turning it into head (f.e. friction = Reibung), there is a reverse
	process related to thermal fluctuations.
	Example: Object moves through fluid, object experiences drag (air or fluid resistance).
		Drag dissipates kinetic energy and turns it into heat.
		Corresponding fluctuation is Brownian Motion

? where does significance come from and what about power consideration?
? figure 1a is example of fluctuation-dissipation relation, why?
	maybe, change in temperature -> change in reflection.
	change in reflection because of thermal fluctuations.
	thermal fluctuations caused by changing temperatures caused by ECS

Emergent constraints were used in attempts to narrow down the likel range of the
	equillibrium climate sensitivity (ECS)
They use correlations between response of climate models to increasing concentration
	of greenhouse gas (GHG) and a quantity that is observable in present climate.
Correlation is then used to constrain ECS, given measurements of present-day observable.
But studies arrive at different conclusions about ECS ranges.
Difference arises (in part) beause studies underestimate statistical uncertainties.

Brown and Caldeira, 2007: fluctuations on Earth's top-of-the-athmosphere (TOA) energy budget
	and correlation with response of climate models to increases in GHG concentrations.
Then infer that ECS lies between 3 and 4.2 K with prob 0.5, most likely  3.7 K, assume t-statistics
	corresponds to ECS between 2.8 and 4.5 K with prob 0.66 (likely in IPCC parlance).
Cox et al 2008: use fluctuations of global-mean temperature and correlation with response of climate
	models to increases in GHG concentrations to infer eCS in 2.2 and 3.4 K, most likely 2.8
Estimates are different, albeit not statistically significantly different, why?
? where does significance come from and what about power consideration?

Figure 1a shows relation of ECS and covariance (reflection in TLC vs surface temperature)
x - axis: percentage change (reflection of sunlight) per degree surface warming (deseasonalized
	natural variations)
Relation ECS to natural fluctuations on x-axis is example of empirical fluctuation-dissipation relation
The more reflection rises in percent per degree surface warming the lesser ECS,
	or if reflection increases -> ECS decreases
	and if refleciton decreases -> ECS increases

notes on statistical inference with emergent constraints pt 2

see also : https://coe.northeastern.edu/news/cloud-physics-conundrum-finetuning-climate-models-using-machine-learning/

? how to come up with blue values?
-> maybe create regression line, use real observations to create most likely
	ECS

see wikipedia uncertainty quanitification
structural uncertainty: aka model inadequacy, model bias, model discrepancy.
	comes from lack of knowledge of underlying physics in the problem.
parameter uncertainy: comes from model parameter inputs, whose exact values are unknown/
	cannot be controlled/ cannot be exactly inferred by statistical models.
error-in-variable-models


what previous emergent-constrain studies have done:
	take band of observations see (fig 1), and project it onto vertical ECS
		axis using estimated regression line between ECS and natural fluctuations,
		taking into account uncertainties in the estimated regression model.
	but if we do that we get an uncertainty bound that is too narrow
	so probability of an ECS that is consistent with the data might me much larger than
		what regression analysis implies.
problems with this approach:
	inference resolves around assuming there exists a linear relationship and
		estimating paramertes in the linear relationship from climate models.
		BUT it is not clear that linear relationship exists.
	estimating parameters is strongly influenced by models that are inconsistent
		with the observations
	-> analysis neglects structural uncertainty (concerning the adequacy of the assumed linear model)
	-> parameter uncertainty is stronly reduced by models that are "bad" by model-data mismatch metric
		models that are inconsistent with data strongly influence results
	-> given no strong a prior knowledge about linear relationship -> inadvisable to make statistical inference
		dependent on models that are not conistent with the data
other problems:
	analysis parameters can introduce selection bias.
	-> choice of how TOA energy fluxes are averaged in space are chosen so that they give strong correlations
		between response of models to increase in GHG (e.g ECS) and natural fluctuations
	-> leads to biased estimates and underestimation of uncertaintes in parameters
	-> if parameters chosen to make correlation large -> estimate therafter correlation -> biased estimates and
		underestimated uncertainties. -> underestimation of uncertaints propagates into underestimated
		ECS uncertainties
	when regression paramaters are estimated by least squares, overvable on the horizontal axis is treates as being
		known predictor, rather than being affected by error -> underestimation of uncertainties
		in regression paramters -> solution: errors-in-variables-methods
part solution:
	arrive at posterior PDF for ECS by weightinh each model's ECS by likelihood of model given observations of
	natural fluctuations. used Kullback-Leibler divergence (aka relative entropy) to estimate the log of
	this model likelihood.
	models f.e 2 and 3 that are inconsistent with observations receive zero weight -> do not influence final
		result
	no linear relationship is assumed
	most likely ECS is 4 K, with range from 2.9 to 4.5 K
	may be unsatisfactory wide range, but is statistically more defensible
still shortcomings:
	selection bias
	treats model ensemlbe as random sample (but it is not)
	it only weights models
	likelihood of ECS depends on what models produce, but it's possible that ECS is completely out of range
		of what models produce because there may be processes that all models miss


